README.md, before:

```
    ____        _ _      _
   |  _ \ __ _| | | ___| |_
   | |_) / _` | | |/ _ \ __|
   |  __/ (_| | | |  __/ |_
   |_|   \__,_|_|_|\___|\__|

   AI Agent Framework
   Google A2A Protocol • Dynamic Discovery
   JSON-RPC 2.0 • FastAPI
```

# Pallet - A2A Agent Framework

A framework for building and orchestrating AI agents using Google's A2A (Agent-to-Agent) protocol.

## Phase 5: Registry-based Orchestration

The Pallet framework implements **dynamic agent discovery** using an OCI registry. Agents are discovered at runtime based on their capabilities (skills) rather than hardcoded URLs.

### What It Does

The orchestrator (`orchestrator.py`) implements a simple 3-step pipeline:

```
Requirements (text)
    ↓
[Plan Agent] → Structured Plan (JSON)
    ↓
[Build Agent] → Generated Code (Python)
    ↓
[Test Agent] → Code Review (Score & Feedback)
    ↓
Results (saved to app/ folder)
```

**Key Innovation**: Agents are discovered **by their skill IDs**, not hardcoded URLs:

- Orchestrator asks: "Who has the `create_plan` skill?" → Gets Plan Agent URL
- Orchestrator asks: "Who has the `generate_code` skill?" → Gets Build Agent URL
- Orchestrator asks: "Who has the `review_code` skill?" → Gets Test Agent URL

This means you can add/replace agents without modifying the orchestrator—just update the registry!

### Quick Start

#### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
uv sync
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"
```

#### 2. Bootstrap the System (Automated)

The `scripts/bootstrap.sh` script handles all setup automatically:

```bash
bash scripts/bootstrap.sh
```

This will:
- ✅ Check all dependencies (Docker, ORAS, uv, jq)
- ✅ Start the OCI registry (port 5000)
- ✅ Push agent cards to registry
- ✅ Start Plan Agent (port 8001)
- ✅ Start Build Agent (port 8002)
- ✅ Start Test Agent (port 8003)
- ✅ Verify all services are running
- ✅ Print ready-to-use commands

#### 3. Run the Orchestrator

After bootstrap completes, in a new terminal:

```bash
# With default requirements:
uv run python main.py

# With custom requirements:
uv run python main.py "Create a function that calculates Fibonacci numbers"
```

The orchestrator will:
- Discover all agents from the registry (by skill ID)
- Chain them together: Plan → Build → Test
- Save results to `app/` folder:
  - `app/main.py` - Generated code
  - `app/plan.json` - Implementation plan
  - `app/review.json` - Code review
  - `app/metadata.json` - Pipeline metadata

#### 4. Tear Down the System

To stop all services and clean up:

```bash
bash scripts/kill.sh              # Stop services, keep logs
bash scripts/kill.sh --clean-logs # Stop services and remove logs
```

This will:
- ✅ Stop all agents
- ✅ Stop the OCI registry **container** (removes container, keeps Docker image)
- ✅ Clear the `app/` folder
- ✅ Optionally clear logs

**Note**: The Docker image is retained for fast re-bootstrap. To remove the image:
```bash
docker rmi registry:2
```

### How Registry-based Discovery Works

The orchestrator uses a **skill-based discovery** system:

**Setup Phase** (`bash scripts/bootstrap.sh`):
1. Agent cards are **pushed** to OCI registry via `oras push`
2. Cards remain in registry for lifetime of system

**Runtime Phase** (`uv run python main.py`):
```
main.py (entry point) calls:
  src/orchestrator.py calls:
    discover_agent("create_plan")
      ↓
discovery.py queries registry:
  1. Get all repositories: registry → ["agents/plan", "agents/build", "agents/test"]
  2. For each agent, pull agent card from OCI registry using ORAS
  3. Parse agent card JSON to extract skills
  4. Search for matching skill ID in agent.skills[]
  5. Return agent URL if skill found
      ↓
src/orchestrator.py gets: "http://localhost:8001"
```

**Agent Card Format** (stored in OCI registry):
```json
{
  "name": "plan-agent",
  "url": "http://localhost:8001",
  "skills": [
    {
      "id": "create_plan",
      "description": "Creates structured implementation plans",
      "input_schema": {...},
      "output_schema": {...}
    }
  ]
}
```

**Why This Matters**:
- ✅ **No Hardcoded URLs**: Orchestrator discovers agents dynamically
- ✅ **Capability-driven**: Find agents by what they can do, not their address
- ✅ **Pluggable**: Add new agents with any skill by updating registry
- ✅ **Scalable**: Registry stores agent cards as versioned OCI artifacts

### Architecture

The agents communicate via Google's A2A protocol:
- **Transport**: HTTP with JSON-RPC 2.0
- **Discovery**: Registry-based (OCI artifact storage with ORAS)
- **Communication**: POST requests to `/execute` endpoint
- **Agent Cards**: JSON specifications stored as versioned artifacts

Each agent:
- Has one or more skills defined in its agent card
- Inherits from `BaseAgent` class
- Uses Anthropic's Claude API for AI processing
- Exposes `/agent-card` endpoint for A2A protocol compliance

### Project Structure

```
src/
├── agents/
│   ├── base.py              # BaseAgent class (A2A protocol endpoints)
│   ├── plan_agent.py        # Plan Agent (create_plan skill)
│   ├── build_agent.py       # Build Agent (generate_code skill)
│   └── test_agent.py        # Test Agent (review_code skill)
├── agent_cards/
│   ├── plan_agent_card.json      # Plan agent skill definitions
│   ├── build_agent_card.json     # Build agent skill definitions
│   └── test_agent_card.json      # Test agent skill definitions
├── orchestrator.py          # Core orchestration logic (Phase 5)
├── discovery.py             # Registry discovery module
└── cli_discover.py          # CLI for querying registry

specs/
├── phase2.md               # Three Minimal Agents specification
├── phase3.md               # Registry Operations specification
├── phase4.md               # Discovery specification
└── phase5.md               # Orchestration specification

main.py                    # Entry point (thin wrapper)
pyproject.toml             # Dependencies
README.md                  # This file
app/                       # Generated code output folder
```

### Key Files for Discovery

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `src/discovery.py` | **RegistryDiscovery class** - queries registry, pulls agent cards, finds agents by skill ID |
| `src/orchestrator.py` | Core orchestration logic - uses `discover_agent()` to look up agents by skill ID |
| `main.py` | Entry point - delegates to `src/orchestrator.py` |
| `src/agent_cards/*.json` | Agent card definitions stored in OCI registry |
| `src/agents/base.py` | Agents expose `/agent-card` endpoint for A2A protocol compliance |

### Dependencies

- **fastapi**: Web framework for agents
- **anthropic**: Claude API client
- **httpx**: Async HTTP client for agent communication
- **pydantic**: Data validation
- **oras**: OCI Registry as Storage (for pulling agent cards)
- **docker**: For running the OCI registry

### For More Information

- [specs/phase5.md](specs/phase5.md) - Orchestration with dynamic discovery
- [specs/phase4.md](specs/phase4.md) - Registry discovery system
- [specs/phase3.md](specs/phase3.md) - Registry operations
- [specs/phase2.md](specs/phase2.md) - Three agent architecture

Commit message:

Clarify Claude CLI subprocess usage in documentation
Update README and CLAUDE.md to accurately reflect that agents invoke
Claude API via the Claude CLI tool using subprocess, not the Anthropic SDK.

Changes:
- Remove references to 'Anthropic API client' dependency
- Add 'System Requirements' section noting claude CLI requirement
- Update environment setup to show Claude CLI installation
- Clarify that ANTHROPIC_API_KEY is used by the claude CLI tool
- Add claude CLI installation instructions to Quick Start

README.md, after:

```
    ____        _ _      _
   |  _ \ __ _| | | ___| |_
   | |_) / _` | | |/ _ \ __|
   |  __/ (_| | | |  __/ |_
   |_|   \__,_|_|_|\___|\__|

   AI Agent Framework
   Google A2A Protocol • Dynamic Discovery
   JSON-RPC 2.0 • FastAPI
```

# Pallet - A2A Agent Framework

A framework for building and orchestrating AI agents using Google's A2A (Agent-to-Agent) protocol.

## Phase 5: Registry-based Orchestration

The Pallet framework implements **dynamic agent discovery** using an OCI registry. Agents are discovered at runtime based on their capabilities (skills) rather than hardcoded URLs.

### What It Does

The orchestrator (`orchestrator.py`) implements a simple 3-step pipeline:

```
Requirements (text)
    ↓
[Plan Agent] → Structured Plan (JSON)
    ↓
[Build Agent] → Generated Code (Python)
    ↓
[Test Agent] → Code Review (Score & Feedback)
    ↓
Results (saved to app/ folder)
```

**Key Innovation**: Agents are discovered **by their skill IDs**, not hardcoded URLs:

- Orchestrator asks: "Who has the `create_plan` skill?" → Gets Plan Agent URL
- Orchestrator asks: "Who has the `generate_code` skill?" → Gets Build Agent URL
- Orchestrator asks: "Who has the `review_code` skill?" → Gets Test Agent URL

This means you can add/replace agents without modifying the orchestrator—just update the registry!

### Quick Start

#### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
# Install Python dependencies with uv
uv sync

# Install Claude CLI (if not already installed)
# See: https://github.com/anthropics/claude-cli
npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-cli

# Set up Claude API credentials
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"
```

#### 2. Bootstrap the System (Automated)

The `scripts/bootstrap.sh` script handles all setup automatically:

```bash
bash scripts/bootstrap.sh
```

This will:
- ✅ Check all dependencies (Docker, ORAS, uv, jq)
- ✅ Start the OCI registry (port 5000)
- ✅ Push agent cards to registry
- ✅ Start Plan Agent (port 8001)
- ✅ Start Build Agent (port 8002)
- ✅ Start Test Agent (port 8003)
- ✅ Verify all services are running
- ✅ Print ready-to-use commands

#### 3. Run the Orchestrator

After bootstrap completes, in a new terminal:

```bash
# With default requirements:
uv run python main.py

# With custom requirements:
uv run python main.py "Create a function that calculates Fibonacci numbers"
```

The orchestrator will:
- Discover all agents from the registry (by skill ID)
- Chain them together: Plan → Build → Test
- Save results to `app/` folder:
  - `app/main.py` - Generated code
  - `app/plan.json` - Implementation plan
  - `app/review.json` - Code review
  - `app/metadata.json` - Pipeline metadata

#### 4. Tear Down the System

To stop all services and clean up:

```bash
bash scripts/kill.sh              # Stop services, keep logs
bash scripts/kill.sh --clean-logs # Stop services and remove logs
```

This will:
- ✅ Stop all agents
- ✅ Stop the OCI registry **container** (removes container, keeps Docker image)
- ✅ Clear the `app/` folder
- ✅ Optionally clear logs

**Note**: The Docker image is retained for fast re-bootstrap. To remove the image:
```bash
docker rmi registry:2
```

### How Registry-based Discovery Works

The orchestrator uses a **skill-based discovery** system:

**Setup Phase** (`bash scripts/bootstrap.sh`):
1. Agent cards are **pushed** to OCI registry via `oras push`
2. Cards remain in registry for lifetime of system

**Runtime Phase** (`uv run python main.py`):
```
main.py (entry point) calls:
  src/orchestrator.py calls:
    discover_agent("create_plan")
      ↓
discovery.py queries registry:
  1. Get all repositories: registry → ["agents/plan", "agents/build", "agents/test"]
  2. For each agent, pull agent card from OCI registry using ORAS
  3. Parse agent card JSON to extract skills
  4. Search for matching skill ID in agent.skills[]
  5. Return agent URL if skill found
      ↓
src/orchestrator.py gets: "http://localhost:8001"
```

**Agent Card Format** (stored in OCI registry):
```json
{
  "name": "plan-agent",
  "url": "http://localhost:8001",
  "skills": [
    {
      "id": "create_plan",
      "description": "Creates structured implementation plans",
      "input_schema": {...},
      "output_schema": {...}
    }
  ]
}
```

**Why This Matters**:
- ✅ **No Hardcoded URLs**: Orchestrator discovers agents dynamically
- ✅ **Capability-driven**: Find agents by what they can do, not their address
- ✅ **Pluggable**: Add new agents with any skill by updating registry
- ✅ **Scalable**: Registry stores agent cards as versioned OCI artifacts

### Architecture

The agents communicate via Google's A2A protocol:
- **Transport**: HTTP with JSON-RPC 2.0
- **Discovery**: Registry-based (OCI artifact storage with ORAS)
- **Communication**: POST requests to `/execute` endpoint
- **Agent Cards**: JSON specifications stored as versioned artifacts

Each agent:
- Has one or more skills defined in its agent card
- Inherits from `BaseAgent` class
- Invokes Claude API via CLI subprocess (`claude` command)
- Exposes `/agent-card` endpoint for A2A protocol compliance

### Project Structure

```
src/
├── agents/
│   ├── base.py              # BaseAgent class (A2A protocol endpoints)
│   ├── plan_agent.py        # Plan Agent (create_plan skill)
│   ├── build_agent.py       # Build Agent (generate_code skill)
│   └── test_agent.py        # Test Agent (review_code skill)
├── agent_cards/
│   ├── plan_agent_card.json      # Plan agent skill definitions
│   ├── build_agent_card.json     # Build agent skill definitions
│   └── test_agent_card.json      # Test agent skill definitions
├── orchestrator.py          # Core orchestration logic (Phase 5)
├── discovery.py             # Registry discovery module
└── cli_discover.py          # CLI for querying registry

specs/
├── phase2.md               # Three Minimal Agents specification
├── phase3.md               # Registry Operations specification
├── phase4.md               # Discovery specification
└── phase5.md               # Orchestration specification

main.py                    # Entry point (thin wrapper)
pyproject.toml             # Dependencies
README.md                  # This file
app/                       # Generated code output folder
```

### Key Files for Discovery

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `src/discovery.py` | **RegistryDiscovery class** - queries registry, pulls agent cards, finds agents by skill ID |
| `src/orchestrator.py` | Core orchestration logic - uses `discover_agent()` to look up agents by skill ID |
| `main.py` | Entry point - delegates to `src/orchestrator.py` |
| `src/agent_cards/*.json` | Agent card definitions stored in OCI registry |
| `src/agents/base.py` | Agents expose `/agent-card` endpoint for A2A protocol compliance |

### Dependencies

- **fastapi**: Web framework for agents
- **uvicorn**: ASGI server for FastAPI
- **httpx**: Async HTTP client for agent communication
- **pydantic**: Data validation
- **oras**: OCI Registry as Storage (for pulling agent cards)
- **docker**: For running the OCI registry

### System Requirements

- **claude** CLI: Must be installed and in PATH for agents to invoke Claude API
- **ANTHROPIC_API_KEY**: Environment variable with valid Claude API key (for claude CLI)

### For More Information

- [specs/phase5.md](specs/phase5.md) - Orchestration with dynamic discovery
- [specs/phase4.md](specs/phase4.md) - Registry discovery system
- [specs/phase3.md](specs/phase3.md) - Registry operations
- [specs/phase2.md](specs/phase2.md) - Three agent architecture
